First all-electric home was on Brown Court – Petaluma Argus-Courier Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 83°F Tuesday, May 19th 2026 eEdition Home Page Weather eEdition Obituaries Obituaries News Obits Place an Obituary News News Schools Crime and Public Safety Newsletters Sports Opinion Opinion Things To Do Things to Do Music Theater Food & Drink Events Sign up for email newsletters Sign Up News | First all-electric home was on Brown Court Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Subscribe Login Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Sign up for email newsletters Sign Up Subscribe Login Search 83°F Tuesday, May 19th 2026 eEdition News News Education TRENDING: Locals renew effort to restore trestle Petaluma Fairgrounds planning process begins PJHS courtyard project to start in June News First all-electric home was on Brown Court Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email false By Katherine Rinehart and Katherine J. Rinehart PUBLISHED: June 5, 2007 at 11:59 PM PDT Getting your Trinity Audio player ready... Petaluma?s first all-electric home was the brainchild of Tully R. Cornick, a local electrical contractor who hired William Singleton in 1924 to build a two-story Craftsman-styled house at 28 Brown Court for him and his family. Mr. Cornick designed the house to be electric from basement to attic and showcased it to the public. At the time of its construction, it was believed to be the first and only home in Petaluma to be entirely operated by electricity. There were more than 40 electrical appliances installed in the home ?where the housewife is a director rather than a menial and leisure reigns in the place of toil and drudgery.? The purpose of the electric home was apparently to instruct Petalumans on the ?efficiency, economy and comfort of the completely wired home.? It also served as a terrific publicity device. The week before the official open house, numerous advertisements appeared in the newspapers from businesses associated with the project including Nielsen Furniture who provided all the furnishings. Nielsen Furniture assured readers that a salesman would be on hand to answer any questions regarding interior decorating during the open house. Contractor William Singleton reminded people of the importance of electric outlets when planning for their new homes and suggested employment of his services while making those plans in his advertisement. More than 800 people visited the electric home on Sunday, July 14, 1924. So popular was the event that the house remained open to the public throughout the following week, giving others the chance to not only marvel at the electrical efficiency, but take note of the artistic furnishings and the architectural details. By 1930 the Cornicks had moved on and Emery Eaton, the proprietor of a dairy, and his family were in residence. Over the years, a number of families would occupy the house, including Max Kemeny, Olga and Darwin Hyde and Frances and William Young. The Kellams, the current owners, purchased the house in 2002, having moved from Berkeley, and have found the house and neighborhood to be a perfect place to raise their family. (Katherine Rinehart is an historian and author of the book ?Petaluma: A History in Architecture.? She works for the Sonoma County Library and is on the board of the Petaluma Museum Association.) Share this: Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Share on X (Opens in new window) X Print (Opens in new window) Print Email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email
